# Predicting Visual Data - ML
This code was used in a friendly machine learning competition for a best performance on a low quality visual data set.
The task is to correctly identify the colour and texture for these objects based on other features.

Support Vector Machine was used as the main model, a powerful and versatile Machine Learning model that can perform either linear or non-linear classification (depending on the kernel). It is especially well suited for the classification of complex but small or medium-sized datasets, and it is effective in high dimensional space.

For more information and reasoning behind the actions made in the code, look into FurtherDescription.pdf.

# Dataset
The dataset is based on a subset of the GQA dataset for learning attributes and relations. The GQA dataset consists of images where objects are annotated in terms of bounding boxes and relevant attributes and relations. Each row in our dataset corresponds to an object in one of the images and contains the following fields:
- the image ID
- the object ID
- position (x, y) and size (width, height) of the object’s bounding box
- colour of the object (categorical)
- texture of the object (categorical)
- colour histogram extracted from the bounding box. This comprises 9 values for each of the three components in the CIELAB colour space (intensity, red-green, blue-yellow), for a total of 27 values
- a histogram of oriented gradients (HOG) extracted from the bounding box, for a total of 288 values
- a set of complex cell responses based on oriented Gabor filters generated by the BIMP model, for a total of 126 values

The histograms and cell responses are calculated in 9 different areas of the bounding box to encode spatial characteristics of objects.
